New Student Webinar Fall 2025 Introduction 2 Kim Gubelman Director of Graduate Student Support Services Marie Poudiougou Graduate Student Services Coordinator Meet the Boston graduate student services team! Cailyn Ellard Assistant Director of Graduate Student Services Alexis Lambert Graduate Student Services Coordinator Katie Godfrey Graduate Student Services Coordinator • Every student will be assigned a graduate academic advisor in September • Our team of academic advisors are Marie Poudiougou, Alexis Lambert, Cailyn Ellard and Katie Godfrey • As staff advisors, they can provide guidance on: oYour degree requirements oCollege policies and procedures oVarious resources on campus whenever needed If you have specific questions about course content and the industry, it’s best to connect with the course professor and co-op advisors, respectively. How we support graduate students 3 Course Registration 4 • Waitlist • Not all classes have waitlists, if you see seats available but cannot add yourself, those seats are reserved for undergrads. • Waitlists can also be full. • Stay on the waitlist, students will drop now until the second week of classes. • If you receive a spot off the waitlist, you will be emailed by the Registrar and must add yourself to the course within 24 hours
reserved for undergrads. • Waitlists can also be full. • Stay on the waitlist, students will drop now until the second week of classes. • If you receive a spot off the waitlist, you will be emailed by the Registrar and must add yourself to the course within 24 hours or the seat will go to the next person on the waitlist. No exceptions to get into the course if this window is missed. • What to do if you cannot register for classes that you want • Stay or get on the waitlist(s) or keep an eye on the Banner portal. • Choose other electives (without prerequisites) that you’d like to take in the meantime. • Look under class details to find out information for the course • Campus (should be Boston or Online) • If online, course could be asynchronous or synchronous • Registration begins on May 7th at 8:00am EDT and it will remain open until the start of class for any changes • For a step-by-step registration guide, visit https://registrar.northeastern.edu/article/new-registration-experience/ • Research Assistantships • Paid position granted by a faculty member • Find opportunities by reaching out to faculty members directly; review their research webpage and
at 8:00am EDT and it will remain open until the start of class for any changes • For a step-by-step registration guide, visit https://registrar.northeastern.edu/article/new-registration-experience/ • Research Assistantships • Paid position granted by a faculty member • Find opportunities by reaching out to faculty members directly; review their research webpage and profile first! • Apprenticeship Program • 4-credit elective course covered by the college • Nomination-based • Project and Thesis Courses • Must complete 16 MS credits first • Project course – 4 credit elective course, create project with faculty sponsor • Thesis course – elective course which uses project course and expands it to a thesis opportunity Research at Khoury 5 Co-op/internship 6 ▪Co-op = Internship ▪Eligible to go on co-op after completing 16 credits towards MS-degree ▪Bridge courses don’t count- except 5004 (for CS Align students) ▪Must have at least a 3.0 GPA ▪Career Preparation Modules/Textbook and e-Portfolio: ▪Required to search for and carry out a co-op/internship opportunity through the program. ▪Completed online on canvas which prepares you for co-op ▪Gives you access to NU job database and an assigned co-op advisor to help with co-op search. Must have a 3.2 GPA. • You will automatically be added to
to search for and carry out a co-op/internship opportunity through the program. ▪Completed online on canvas which prepares you for co-op ▪Gives you access to NU job database and an assigned co-op advisor to help with co-op search. Must have a 3.2 GPA. • You will automatically be added to the course on Canvas some time during the semester. • Current graduate student groups within Khoury • Blockchain • Khoury Master's Student Council (KMSC) • Data Science Hub • Align Boston Club • Graduate Women in Science and Engineering (GWISE) • Null- Cybersecurity Chapter • Khoury SHEROs of Color • Google Student Developers Club • Khoury Robotics Club • NU Boston ACM-W • Opportunity to meet peers, develop programming, connect with faculty and staff, make a difference in the Khoury community, and take on leadership roles • https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/about/clubs-and-organizations/ • (select graduate for degree level) • Information on our Khoury Resource Center Sharepoint page, which will be shared with you toward the start of the semester Khoury Student Groups 7 Campus Resources 8 • Student Financial Services: • Details on tuition and fees • Please note that academic advisors do not handle billing and cannot check a student’s financial status. •
Center Sharepoint page, which will be shared with you toward the start of the semester Khoury Student Groups 7 Campus Resources 8 • Student Financial Services: • Details on tuition and fees • Please note that academic advisors do not handle billing and cannot check a student’s financial status. • Billing: Student Financial Services Inquiry Form. 617-373-2270 • Financial Aid: Student Financial Services Inquiry Form 617-373-5899 • University Health Report: All new students need to complete and submit the report no later than one month before entering the University • https://www.northeastern.edu/uhcs/forms/university-health-report/ • Office of Global Services- International Students • Information on how to maintain your status, including visa processing • CPT and OPT processes • OGS Inquiry Form 617-373-2310 Campus Resources 9 • Disability Access Services (DAS) • If a student wishes to register accommodations with the DAS, this is highly encouraged to complete a few months prior to the semester beginning. • https://disabilityaccessservices.sites.northeastern.edu/incomingand sunregisteredstudents/ • Student Employment Office • We do not recommend on campus employment in a students' first semester. • Workday access will be provided 20 days prior to the start of the semester. • Off-Campus Housing • Lease & Roommate assistance • Finding housing off-campus •
semester beginning. • https://disabilityaccessservices.sites.northeastern.edu/incomingand sunregisteredstudents/ • Student Employment Office • We do not recommend on campus employment in a students' first semester. • Workday access will be provided 20 days prior to the start of the semester. • Off-Campus Housing • Lease & Roommate assistance • Finding housing off-campus • Review the new student check list that was emailed to you. • Each student will be assigned an academic advisor in early September. • You will receive a welcome email from your academic advisor at the beginning of the semester introducing themselves and instructing how to schedule an appointment. • New students are required to meet with their assigned academic advisor in the first semester or they will receive a registration hold. A link to make an appointment will be sent by your academic advisor once assigned. • Come to the first appointment with a completed course map so you can review it with your advisor. • Advisor Report: • Sent every Monday in the semester by Kim Gubelman • Academic Deadlines • Social, academic, career events • Resources Keep in mind... 10 Orientation 11 Boston Students: ▪ Campus orientation will likely be a date in late August. More details
can review it with your advisor. • Advisor Report: • Sent every Monday in the semester by Kim Gubelman • Academic Deadlines • Social, academic, career events • Resources Keep in mind... 10 Orientation 11 Boston Students: ▪ Campus orientation will likely be a date in late August. More details to come! ▪There will be additional online orientation from the University on Canvas. ▪ There will be a separate orientation for international students through the Office of Global Services (OGS). They will reach out directly. ▪OGS will place a hold on student's account if this is not completed. ▪ All orientations are required. Breakout Rooms 12 MSCS- Breakout Room New Student Webinar Fall 2025 Curriculum 14 Algorithms (CS 5800) Breadth Area 1 2 courses Breadth Area 2 1 course AND AND Choice Elective Choice Elective Choice Elective Master's Degree MS CORE CLASSES Programming Design Paradigm (CS 5010) One course from EACH of the 3 Breadth Areas OR Breadth Areas 15 Systems and Software Theory and Security Artificial Intelligence and Data Science CS 5600:Computer Systems CS 6760:Privacy, Security, and Usability CS 5200:Database Management Systems CS 5700:Fundamentals of Computer Networking CY 5770:Software Vulnerabilities and Security CS 6200:Information Retrieval CS 6650:Building Scalable Distributed
EACH of the 3 Breadth Areas OR Breadth Areas 15 Systems and Software Theory and Security Artificial Intelligence and Data Science CS 5600:Computer Systems CS 6760:Privacy, Security, and Usability CS 5200:Database Management Systems CS 5700:Fundamentals of Computer Networking CY 5770:Software Vulnerabilities and Security CS 6200:Information Retrieval CS 6650:Building Scalable Distributed Systems CY 6740:Network Security CS 6220:Data Mining Techniques CS 6710:Wireless Network CS 7805: Complexity Theory CS 6240:Large-Scale Parallel Data Processing CS 5400:Principles of Programming Languages CS 5100:Foundations of Artificial Intelligence CS 5500:Foundations of Software Engineering CS 6140:Machine Learning CS 5610:Web Development CS 7140:Advanced Machine Learning CS 6410:Compilers CS 6120:Natural Language Processing CS 6510:Advanced Software Development CS 5150:Game Artificial Intelligence CS 6620: Fundamentals of Cloud Computing CS 5330:Pattern Recognition and Computer Vision CS 5520:Mobile Application Development *Complete three courses from AT LEAST two of the following breadth areas, OR one from each breadth area Course Registration for Fall 2025 16 You should register for: • CS 5010 Programming Design Paradigm and CS 5011 (Recitation) - 4 credits o You will need to enroll in a recitation with the same professor o Be sure the section is labelled "Boston" • A breadth area or elective course (without pre-requisite required) - 4 credits
should register for: • CS 5010 Programming Design Paradigm and CS 5011 (Recitation) - 4 credits o You will need to enroll in a recitation with the same professor o Be sure the section is labelled "Boston" • A breadth area or elective course (without pre-requisite required) - 4 credits • These courses are compulsory for the degree program. You may change to another section of a course beginning Wednesday, May 7th at 8:00 AM EDT until the add/drop deadline in September. • You should NOT take CS 5010 and CS 5800 together Hidden Sections 17 • We will provide hidden CRNs of: • CS 5200 - Database Management Systems • CS 5610 - Web Development • We will email students on May 6th informing you of the CRNs of these courses • These courses will be available on a first come, first serve basis Thank you 18
